Draft for Spring Boot 3 WAR post (#3655)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2024-05-01-spring-boot-3.adoc

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/scottkurz
author_github: https://github.com/scottkurz
seo-title: Running a Spring Boot 3.x application WAR file on Liberty
seo-description: In version 23.0.0.9 and later, you can easily run a Spring Boot 3.x application from a WAR file on Open Liberty. This post use the Spring Boot Petclinic sample application and the Liberty Maven plugin to create and run a WAR-based Spring Boot 3.1 application on Open Liberty. 
blog_description: In version 23.0.0.9 and later, you can easily run a Spring Boot 3.x application from a WAR file on Open Liberty. This post uses the Spring Boot Petclinic sample application and the Liberty Maven plugin to create and run a WAR-based Spring Boot 3.1 application on Open Liberty. 
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Running a Spring Boot 3.x application WAR file on Liberty
Scott Kurz <https://github.com/scottkurz>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> As of Liberty version 23.0.0.9 there are now two ways to deploy Spring Boot WAR files on Liberty.  This allows developers to take advantage of the Spring and Spring Boot libraries while leveraging the performance enhancements Liberty has built especially for Spring Boot applications, addressing https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/10/17/memory-footprint-throughput-update.html[performance] throughput and memory footprint while providing rapid application startup through https://openliberty.io/blog/2023/09/26/spring-boot-3-instant-on.html[InstantOn].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Liberty version 23.0.0.9 and later, you can get enhancements for Spring Boot applications that address https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/10/17/memory-footprint-throughput-update.html[performance], throughput, memory footprint, and rapid application startup through https://openliberty.io/blog/2023/09/26/spring-boot-3-instant-on.html[InstantOn].
```

Reviewer: We call out InstantOn here, but it isn't otherwise mentioned or explained in this post. We should either add some content about it or remove this reference

Author: OK, removed refs to InstantOn.

> While a Spring Boot WAR can be deployed like any standard Jakarta EE WAR, the WAR can be optimized via a special deployment for Spring Boot applications. The optimization adds some additional configuration options, and provides advantages for efficiently building Docker container images, using some extra pom.xml and server.xml configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you can deploy a Spring Boot WAR like any standard Jakarta EE WAR, with Liberty, you can also optimize it with a special deployment for Spring Boot applications. The optimization adds some configuration options and provides advantages for efficiently building Docker container images by using some extra `pom.xml` and `server.xml` file configuration.
```

> In this blog post, we create a simple app by using the Spring Initializr, and then deploy the app as a WAR to Liberty without any modifications, using the same deployment as for any WAR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we'll first create a simple app by using the link:https://start.spring.io/[Spring Initializr], and then deploy it as a WAR to Liberty without any modifications, using the same deployment as for any WAR.
```

> We then show how to optimize the Spring Boot deployment by adding the Liberty Maven Plugin (`liberty-maven-plugin`) and some minimal config to the `pom.xml`, and add a simple `server.xml` configuration with the `springBoot-3.0` feature.   We can then build an efficiently-layered Docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then show how to optimize the Spring Boot deployment by adding the Liberty Maven Plugin (`liberty-maven-plugin`) and a simple `server.xml` configuration with the `springBoot-3.0` feature.   We can then build an efficiently-layered Docker image.
```

> Though the Spring Boot https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/deploy-spring-boot.html[documentation] in Open Liberty focuses mostly on the optimized deployment associated with the Spring Boot features, there are a couple advantages with using a traditional WAR deployment, which can use the same `server.xml` and `pom.xml` configuration, and maybe the same Docker build, as your non-Spring Boot WARs. So we spend some extra time in this post explaining both options.

Reviewer: I would move this paragraph up to be after the one at line 22 to make the case for including two use cases before you detail what those use cases are in the following paragraphs.

Author: Reworked.

== Prerequisites
- The sample requires Java 21 (though it could be easily reworked using Java 17)

== Deploy as standard WAR

> 1. Create project from Spring Initializr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a project project from your browser using link:https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=3.2.4&packaging=war&jvmVersion=21&groupId=demo&artifactId=spring-liberty&name=spring-liberty&description=Demo%20project%20for%20Spring%20Boot&packageName=demo&dependencies=web[this Spring Initializr configuration].
```

+

> From browser:  https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=3.2.4&packaging=war&jvmVersion=21&groupId=demo&artifactId=spring-liberty&name=spring-liberty&description=Demo%20project%20for%20Spring%20Boot&packageName=demo&dependencies=web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> 2. Add web controller `vi src/main/java/demo/HelloController.java`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the following `vi src/main/java/demo/HelloController.java` web controller file.
```

+
[source,java]
----
package demo;

import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

@RestController
public class HelloController {

    @GetMapping("/")
    public String hello() {
        return "Hello from Spring Boot in Open Liberty!";
    }

}
----
+

> 3. Run with standard WAR deployment with default configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. From the command line, run a standard WAR deployment with the default configuration.
```

+
[source,sh]
----
./mvnw io.openliberty.tools:liberty-maven-plugin:3.10:dev -Dtemplate=webProfile10 -DskipTests
----
+
4. Test the application by visiting the following URL in a browser: http://localhost:9080/spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT/
+
You should see:
+
  Hello from Spring Boot in Open Liberty!
+

> 5. Stop the server (with  `<Ctrl>+C` or `q,<Enter>` to quit dev mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Stop the server by pressing `Ctrl`+`C` or  by typing `q` and pressing `Enter` to quit dev mode.
```

but does the mvn command in step 3 start server in dev mode?

Author: Added a mention of dev mode in 3.

+

> 6. Recap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Results
```

+

> The app is bootstrapped by the web container via the ServletInitializer, extending `SpringBootServletInitializer`.  We go out of our way to run this example with only default Liberty and Maven configuration even though it'd be more typical to maintain a server.xml configuration for your app.

Reviewer: the results should make the benefit of running a standard WAR more clear. These results focus on config details as opposed to value add

== Use optimized Liberty Spring Boot deployment

> We're going to reuse the app from the previous example.   By adding some extra configuration in the `pom.xml` and `server.xml` we end up being able to build an efficiently-layered Docker image, and also to parameterize the app with application arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses the same Spring app that is created in step 1 of the previous example. By adding some extra configuration in the `pom.xml` and `server.xml`, you can build an efficiently-layered Docker image and also to parameterize the app with application arguments.
```

> 1. Add liberty-maven-plugin with Spring Boot deployment config to pom.xml:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add liberty-maven-plugin with Spring Boot deployment config to the `pom.xml` file:
```

+
[source,xml]
----
    <plugin>
        <groupId>io.openliberty.tools</groupId>
        <artifactId>liberty-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>3.10</version>
        <configuration>
            <appsDirectory>apps</appsDirectory>
            <deployPackages>spring-boot-project</deployPackages>
        </configuration>
    </plugin>
----
+

> 2. Create your Liberty server.xml by copying from the Spring Boot template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create your Liberty `server.xml` file by copying from the Spring Boot template
```

+
[source,sh]
----
./mvnw clean liberty:create -Dtemplate=springBoot3
mkdir -p src/main/liberty/config/
cp target/liberty/wlp/usr/servers/defaultServer/server.xml src/main/liberty/config/server.xml
----
+

> 3. Add application arguments to your Spring Boot application configuration in Liberty server.xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add application arguments to your Spring Boot application configuration in the Liberty `server.xml` file
```

+
[source,xml]
----
 <springBootApplication id="spring-liberty" location="thin-spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war" name="spring-liberty">
    <applicationArgument>--server.servlet.context-path=/testpath</applicationArgument>
    <applicationArgument>--myarg=myval</applicationArgument>
 </springBootApplication>
----
+

> 4. Add println to echo args in output, `vi ./src/main/java/demo/SpringLibertyApplication.java`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add `println` to echo arguments in the `vi ./src/main/java/demo/SpringLibertyApplication.java` output.
```

Author: See what you think of this.

+
[source,java]
----
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Arguments array = " + java.util.Arrays.toString(args));
        SpringApplication.run(SpringLibertyApplication.class, args);
    }
----
+
5. Run
+

> Though the Liberty Maven Plugin doesn't currently have support for using dev mode (or "loose applications") when using the optimized deployment, we can still use the "lifecycle" built into the 'run' goal.  We do need to do a 'package' first to get the Spring Boot "repackage" packaging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the Liberty Maven Plugin doesn't currently support dev mode when you use the optimized deployment, you can still use the life cycle built into the 'run' goal.  We do need to do a 'package' first to get the Spring Boot "repackage" packaging.
```

Author: Took this but kept "lifecycle" as one word since it's meant to track the Maven term "lifecycle".

+
[source,sh]
----
./mvnw package liberty:run
----
+
6.  Observe the output:
+
[source,sh]
----
[INFO] Arguments array = [--server.servlet.context-path=/testpath, --myarg=myval]
[INFO]   .   ____          _            __ _ _
[INFO]  /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
[INFO] ( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
[INFO]  \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
[INFO]   '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
[INFO]  =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
[INFO]  :: Spring Boot ::                (v3.2.4)
----
+
and also
+
[source,sh]
----
[INFO] [AUDIT   ] CWWKT0016I: Web application available (default_host): http://localhost:9080/testpath/
----
+
7. Test the application by visiting the following URL in a browser: http://localhost:9080/testpath/
+
As before, you should see:
+
  Hello from Spring Boot in Open Liberty!
+

> 8. When you finish testing the application, stop the server by typing `<Ctrl>+C`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. When you finish testing the application, stop the server by pressing `Ctrl`+`C`.
```

+

> 9. Recap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Results
```

+

> The server is configured with the https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/reference/feature/springBoot-3.0.html[springBoot-3.0] feature. The liberty-maven-plugin has been added to the pom.xml along with special configuration to use the optimized Spring Boot deployment.  The app is packaged as an "executable WAR" by running the `spring-boot:repackage` goal in the `package` phase, and the app is bootstrapped via its `main()` method in `SpringLibertyApplication` passing in application arguments defined in `server.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server is configured with the https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/reference/feature/springBoot-3.0.html[springBoot-3.0] feature. The `liberty-maven-plugin` is added to the `pom.xml`, along with special configuration to use the optimized Spring Boot deployment.  The app is packaged as an executable WAR by running the `spring-boot:repackage` goal in the `package` phase, and the app is bootstrapped by its `main()` method in `SpringLibertyApplication` passing in application arguments defined in `server.xml`.
```

Reviewer: here too, the results focus on config (how) instead of value (why)

Author: I get what you're saying, but I think if we back up you'll see why I didn't go into more detail.    Backing up, all our Liberty-related Spring Boot doc focuses on what I'm calling the optimized deployment.   In fact, we don't even call it an "optimized deployment"... we just kind of take for granted this is how you deploy Spring Boot to the point that we don't even mention the "standard WAR" deployment.  

So I think there's enough out there overall about the thinning, etc. advantages of the optimized deployment. I did link back to it.  I don't think this one blog post needs to make the case in all that much detail.. it's been our story for awhile.

1. Create your `Dockerfile`.  
+
[source,dockerfile]
----
# Stage and thin the application 
FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty:full-java21-openj9-ubi-minimal as staging

ARG APPNAME=spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war
COPY --chown=1001:0 target/$APPNAME \
  /staging/$APPNAME

RUN springBootUtility thin \
 --sourceAppPath=/staging/$APPNAME \
 --targetThinAppPath=/staging/thin-$APPNAME \
 --targetLibCachePath=/staging/lib.index.cache

FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty:kernel-slim-java21-openj9-ubi-minimal

ARG APPNAME=spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war
ARG VERSION=1.0
ARG REVISION=SNAPSHOT
COPY --chown=1001:0 src/main/liberty/config/server.xml /config/server.xml

RUN features.sh

COPY --chown=1001:0 --from=staging /staging/lib.index.cache /lib.index.cache
COPY --chown=1001:0 --from=staging /staging/thin-$APPNAME \
                    /config/apps/thin-$APPNAME

RUN configure.sh 
----
+
(Note you can use the `full-java17-openj9-ubi` tag to build the equivalent Java 17 image.)
+
2. Build then run the image
+
[source,sh]
----
docker build -t springboot:demo .
docker run -p 9080:9080 -p 9443:9443 -it springboot:demo
----

== Results

> To recap, a Spring Boot WAR can be deployed to Liberty like any other WAR, or it can be deployed with an optimized deployment using special liberty-maven-plugin configuration and the `springBoot-3.0` feature configured in server.xml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To recap, you can deploy a Spring Boot WAR to Liberty like any other WAR, or you can deploy it with an optimized deployment using special `liberty-maven-plugin` configuration and the `springBoot-3.0` feature configured in server.xml.
```

Though much of the programming model is the same across the two cases, there are some differences including the bootstrap mechanism.

> 

Reviewer: recap the value

Author: I tried to address this overall.

== References
* Clone the https://github.com/scottkurz/spring-liberty[repository] with the finished code for this blog.

> * doc:   https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/deploy-spring-boot.html   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Docs: link:https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/deploy-spring-boot.html[Configure and Deploy Spring Boot applications to Open Liberty]   
```

> * instanton: https://openliberty.io/blog/2023/09/26/spring-boot-3-instant-on.html

Reviewer: instantOn isn't explained or mentioned in the post, I'd remove this unless you add some context

Author: Done

> * GH repo:  https://github.com/scottkurz/spring-liberty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/scottkurz/spring-liberty[spring-liberty Git repo](https://github.com/scottkurz/spring-liberty)
```

Reviewer: what is this? might help to add a sentence to explain

Author: I guess this was a dup, so I combined with the earlier link.

> * Spring Boot Open Liberty guide:  https://openliberty.io/guides/spring-boot.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Guide: link:https://openliberty.io/guides/spring-boot.html[Containerizing, packaging, and running a Spring Boot application]  
```

> * TODO - way to note support for minor references

Reviewer: remove this, pending input from chuck or harry?

Author: done

title: "Running a Spring Boot 3.x application WAR file on Liberty"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/scottkurz
author_github: https://github.com/scottkurz
seo-title: Running a Spring Boot 3.x application WAR file on Liberty
seo-description: In version 23.0.0.9 and later, you can easily run a Spring Boot 3.x application from a WAR file on Open Liberty. This post use the Spring Petclinic sample application and the Liberty Maven plugin to create and run a WAR-based Spring Boot 3.1 application on Open Liberty.
blog_description: In version 23.0.0.9 and later, you can easily run a Spring Boot 3.x application from a WAR file on Open Liberty. This post uses the Spring Petclinic sample application and the Liberty Maven plugin to create and run a WAR-based Spring Boot 3.1 application on Open Liberty.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Running a Spring Boot 3.x application WAR file on Liberty
Scott Kurz <https://github.com/scottkurz>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> As of version 23.0.0.9, Liberty offers support for Spring Boot 3.1, allowing developers to take advantage of the Spring and Spring Boot libraries while providing a range of https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/10/17/memory-footprint-throughput-update.html[performance] enhancements specifically engineered to provide an industry-leading, first-class platform for Spring Boot applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of version 23.0.0.9, Liberty offers support for Spring Boot 3.1, including a range of https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/10/17/memory-footprint-throughput-update.html[performance] enhancements that provide an industry-leading, first-class platform for Spring Boot applications.
```

> When packaging a Spring Boot app in the WAR format, developers and administrators get to choose from two Liberty deployment options, each with a different set of advantages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you package a Spring Boot app in the WAR format, you can choose from two Liberty deployment options, each with a different set of advantages.
```

> A Spring Boot WAR can simply be deployed like any standard Jakarta EE WAR using the same developer tooling and server configuration, and providing a common DevOps workflow as with your other Liberty WAR deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy a Spring Boot WAR  like any standard Jakarta EE WAR by using the same developer tooling and server configuration, and providing a common DevOps workflow with your other Liberty WAR deployments.
```

> In addition, with Liberty, you can use a special https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/deploy-spring-boot.html[optimized deployment for Spring Boot applications]. The optimization adds some configuration options and provides advantages for efficiently building Docker container images by using some extra `pom.xml` and `server.xml` file configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use a special https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/deploy-spring-boot.html[optimized Liberty deployment for Spring Boot applications]. This optimization adds some configuration options and provides advantages to efficiently build Docker container images.
```

In this blog post, we'll first create a simple app by using the link:https://start.spring.io/[Spring Initializr], and then deploy it as a WAR to Liberty without any modifications, using the same deployment as for any WAR.

> We then show how to optimize the Spring Boot deployment by adding the Liberty Maven Plugin (`liberty-maven-plugin`) and a simple `server.xml` configuration with the `springBoot-3.0` feature.   We can then build an efficiently-layered Docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then show how to optimize the Spring Boot deployment by adding the Liberty Maven Plugin (`liberty-maven-plugin`) and a simple `server.xml` configuration with the `springBoot-3.0` feature. We can then build an efficiently-layered Docker image.
```

== Prerequisites
- The sample requires Java 21 (though you could be easily rework it to use Java 17)

> == Option 1: Deploy your Spring Boot app as standard WAR file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Deploy your Spring Boot app as standard WAR file
```

> - The sample requires Java 21 (though it could be easily reworked using Java 17)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The sample requires Java 21 (though you could be easily rework it to use Java 17)
```

> == Deploy as standard WAR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Option 1: Deploy your Spring Boot app as standard WAR file
```

> 1. Create a project from your browser using link:https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=3.2.5&packaging=war&jvmVersion=21&groupId=demo&artifactId=spring-liberty&name=spring-liberty&description=Demo%20project%20for%20Spring%20Boot&packageName=demo&dependencies=web[this Spring Initializr configuration].

Reviewer: I'm not going to suggest the edit from PR review mode, but I think this 1st step should be part of the prereqs- it's the same step for either procedure so better to add as a prereq than ask "optimized deployers" to go back to the option they already skipped over

Author: OK, I  see why you are saying this, which means the flow isn't as clear as I'd thought.   You are assuming that because these are two parallel options that someone following the blog instructions could do either Option 1 OR Option 2, and therefore could start right at Option 2.

If I did that though I'd have to move the generation of the "2. Add the following Spring web controller file" into the prereq... the Option 2. builds on the Option 1. instructions.

I think it works well enough walking you through both options... it's not like either one is too long in and of itself.

Do you think it's worth trying to make this all more clear somehow, (the article organization I'm explaining in this comment)

I wonder if I should go back and rename the headings since I've since changed them to Option 1... Option 2.

Reviewer: ok- I did think this was an either-or scenario. If it's not, we shouldn't use "option..." in the section headings. Also need to tweak the intro a bit. Is this the intended flow?

1. Here's how you deploy a spring app like any other WAR
2. If you want to optimize that deployment, take what you did in (1) and add some more config

+

> 2. Add the following Spring web controller file (use the `vi` command here, or your preferred editor) :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the following Spring web controller file (use the `vi` command here, or your preferred editor).
```

@RestController
public class HelloController {

    @GetMapping("/")
    public String hello() {
        return "Hello from Spring Boot in Open Liberty!";
    }

}
----
+
3. From the command line, run a standard WAR deployment in https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/development-mode.html[dev mode], with the configuration provided by the `webProfile10` template.
+
[source,sh]
----
./mvnw io.openliberty.tools:liberty-maven-plugin:3.10:dev -Dtemplate=webProfile10 -DskipTests
----
+
4. Test the application by visiting the following URL in a browser: http://localhost:9080/spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT/
+
You should see:
+
  Hello from Spring Boot in Open Liberty!
+
5. Stop the server by pressing `Ctrl`+`C` or  by typing `q` and pressing `Enter` to quit dev mode.

=== Results

The app is deployed in dev mode, like you would with any Jakarta EE WAR, without any special configuration or steps specific to Spring Boot.   

The Spring portion of the app is bootstrapped by the web container by using the `SpringBootServletInitializer` extension generated into your application by the **Spring Initializr** and from there you can use the Spring and Spring Boot APIs.

> == Option 2: Use the optimized Liberty Spring Boot deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Optimize the deployment with the Liberty Spring Boot feature
```

> == Use optimized Liberty Spring Boot deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Option 2: Use the optimized Liberty Spring Boot deployment
```

> This example uses the same Spring app that is created in step 1 of the previous example. By adding some extra configuration in the `pom.xml` and `server.xml`, you can build an efficiently-layered Docker image and also parameterize the app with application arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses the same Spring Initializr app that you created in the previous section. By adding some extra configuration in the `pom.xml` and `server.xml` files, you can build an efficiently-layered Docker image and also parameterize the app with application arguments.
```

Author: left alone after discussing

> This example uses the same Spring app that is created in step 1 of the previous example. By adding some extra configuration in the `pom.xml` and `server.xml`, you can build an efficiently-layered Docker image and also parameterize the app with application arguments.

Reviewer: if you add the initializr to the prepreqs, update this section accordingly

> 1. Add liberty-maven-plugin with Spring Boot deployment config to the `pom.xml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following `liberty-maven-plugin` with Spring Boot deployment config to the `pom.xml` file.
```

Author: That suggestion seemed a bit awkward to me.   While I'm not crazy about my next revision, I think the user will be clear enough what to do here, which is to copy and paste the XML snippet shown into the pom.xml.

+
[source,xml]
----
    <plugin>
        <groupId>io.openliberty.tools</groupId>
        <artifactId>liberty-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>3.10</version>
        <configuration>
            <appsDirectory>apps</appsDirectory>
            <deployPackages>spring-boot-project</deployPackages>
        </configuration>
    </plugin>
----
+

> 2. Create your Liberty `server.xml` file by copying from the Spring Boot template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create your Liberty `server.xml` file by copying from the Spring Boot template.
```

+
[source,sh]
----
./mvnw clean liberty:create -Dtemplate=springBoot3
mkdir -p src/main/liberty/config/
cp target/liberty/wlp/usr/servers/defaultServer/server.xml src/main/liberty/config/server.xml
----
+

> 3. Add application arguments to your Spring Boot application configuration in the Liberty `server.xml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add application arguments to your Spring Boot application configuration in the Liberty `server.xml` file.
```

+
[source,xml]
----
 <springBootApplication id="spring-liberty" location="thin-spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war" name="spring-liberty">
    <applicationArgument>--server.servlet.context-path=/testpath</applicationArgument>
    <applicationArgument>--myarg=myval</applicationArgument>
 </springBootApplication>
----
+

> 4. Add `println` to echo arguments in the output (use the `vi` command here, or your preferred editor) :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add `println` to echo arguments in the output (use the `vi` command here, or your preferred editor).
```

+
[source,sh]
----
vi ./src/main/java/demo/SpringLibertyApplication.java
----
+
[source,java]
----
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Arguments array = " + java.util.Arrays.toString(args));
        SpringApplication.run(SpringLibertyApplication.class, args);
    }
----
+

> 5. Run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run
```

Run what? The app? the deployment?

Author: Done

1. Create your `Dockerfile`.  
+
[source,dockerfile]
----
# Stage and thin the application 
FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty:full-java21-openj9-ubi-minimal as staging

ARG APPNAME=spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war
COPY --chown=1001:0 target/$APPNAME \
  /staging/$APPNAME

RUN springBootUtility thin \
 --sourceAppPath=/staging/$APPNAME \
 --targetThinAppPath=/staging/thin-$APPNAME \
 --targetLibCachePath=/staging/lib.index.cache

FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty:kernel-slim-java21-openj9-ubi-minimal

ARG APPNAME=spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war
ARG VERSION=1.0
ARG REVISION=SNAPSHOT
COPY --chown=1001:0 src/main/liberty/config/server.xml /config/server.xml

RUN features.sh

COPY --chown=1001:0 --from=staging /staging/lib.index.cache /lib.index.cache
COPY --chown=1001:0 --from=staging /staging/thin-$APPNAME \
                    /config/apps/thin-$APPNAME

RUN configure.sh 
----
+
(Note you can use the `full-java17-openj9-ubi` tag to build the equivalent Java 17 image.)
+

> 2. Build then run the image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Build then run the image.
```

+
[source,sh]
----
docker build -t springboot:demo .
docker run -p 9080:9080 -p 9443:9443 -it springboot:demo
----

== Results

> To recap, you can deploy a Spring Boot WAR to Liberty like any other WAR, or you can deploy it with an optimized deployment using special `liberty-maven-plugin` configuration and the `springBoot-3.0` feature configured in server.xml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To recap, you can deploy a Spring Boot WAR to Liberty like any other WAR, or you can configure an optimized deployment using special `liberty-maven-plugin` configuration and the `springBoot-3.0` feature in the `server.xml` file.
```

> Though much of the programming model is the same across the two cases, there are some differences including the bootstrap mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though much of the programming model is the same across the two cases, there are some differences, including the bootstrap mechanism and the ability to create more efficient Docker layers with the optimized deployment.
```

FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty:kernel-slim-java21-openj9-ubi-minimal

ARG APPNAME=spring-liberty-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war
ARG VERSION=1.0
ARG REVISION=SNAPSHOT
COPY --chown=1001:0 src/main/liberty/config/server.xml /config/server.xml

RUN features.sh

COPY --chown=1001:0 --from=staging /staging/lib.index.cache /lib.index.cache
COPY --chown=1001:0 --from=staging /staging/thin-$APPNAME \
                    /config/apps/thin-$APPNAME

RUN configure.sh 
----
+
(Note you can use the `full-java17-openj9-ubi` tag to build the equivalent Java 17 image.)
+
2. Build then run the image.
+
[source,sh]
----
docker build -t springboot:demo .
docker run -p 9080:9080 -p 9443:9443 -it springboot:demo
----

== Results

To recap, you can deploy a Spring Boot WAR to Liberty like any other WAR, or you can configure an optimized deployment using special `liberty-maven-plugin` configuration and the `springBoot-3.0` feature in the `server.xml` file.
Though much of the programming model is the same across the two cases, there are some differences, including the bootstrap mechanism and the ability to create more efficient Docker layers with the optimized deployment.

> (**Note:** the flow through Parts 1 and 2 of this blog post are a bit contrived to show the two deployment options, and your real development workflow would probably look a bit different. When using a traditional WAR deployment you would likely maintain your own `server.xml` file rather than continuing to use the template configuration. When using the optimized Liberty deployment there's no need to do a traditional deployment first.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The flow through Parts 1 and 2 of this blog post is a bit contrived to show the two deployment options, and your real development workflow would probably look a bit different. When using a traditional WAR deployment, you would likely maintain your own `server.xml` file rather than continuing to use the template configuration. When using the optimized Liberty deployment, there's no need to do a traditional deployment first.
```

If you're wondering, yes, while a Spring Boot WAR must be repackaged as an executable WAR to use the optimized deployment, that executable WAR could still be deployed as a standard WAR.

> === Part 3: Build container image with efficient layering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Part 3: Build a container image with efficient layering
```
